So we're at the end of the last leg,
and for me, this is one of the most
important ones, I guess because of
the community that I'm in is veterans.
Veterans have the worst ability
of being able to ask for help.
I have never seen a culture that's so
ingrained on suffering
in silence as veterans,
I mean, I'm a veteran, right?
So I'm part of the guilty party, right?
But once I teach them how to network and
let them know it's okay to ask for help,
and it's okay to talk to people
about a thing you're doing and
your work doesn't have to be
perfect to be out in the wild.
And sucking at something is the first
step of being sort of good at it.
Hashtag adventure time for
those of y'all don't see.
You knew, come here, man.
That's what I'm talking about.
Somebody grew up watching Cartoon Network.
So like are we okay, school?
Parents do not love you.
It's okay.
[LAUGH]
>> Sometimes very wise.
>> Yes, Jake the Dog was though.
He had it, he was a goat.
So, we're gonna talk about this,
this networking, and
we're gonna talk about in
the manner that makes it impactful.
I've never been one of those people
that wanna go to the meetups of
the bunch people and
pass out cards and stuff.
I've never been that guy.
I've always been a intentional
networker with a focus on
making sure that I met the right
people at the right time.
Even when I went to conferences, I'm known
for being at the conference but not being
at the conference because my goal with
a conference is, always have three things.
Learn something,
meet at least one person, and
then make sure I get a resource
that showcases that I've been
there like a picture or
something with someone, right?
Those are always the three things
I'm trying to get me one intentional
connection.
Get learn one good, learn, get one
talk that's intentional that was good.
And also get a little piece of media
that showcases, I was here and
stuff like that then I'm
like I'm out I'm like bye,
see you all later I don't even want to be
here no more, smoke pop, smoke I'm gone.
So I that's what I want
to talk to you about.
So you all are new to the tech industry
and it could be networking is powerful,
super powerful tool, right, just like not
even here where you're networking with
each other, getting resources, learn
with each other, learning new things.
Helping each other with your career
focus stuff like that, very important.
Skill again establish relationships
with mentors find opportunities and
stay up to date.
I would say that the whole
like in my own career,
networking has helped me
get to the point where
the last two jobs I did
not have to apply for,
I was actually requested to apply for,
right?
And that's where you want to get.
As you as your career progressed,
you want to go from having to do these
code interviews to being recommended for
these interviews to being
asked to interview, all right?
That's the natural progression,
if you're doing it right, right?
If you're doing it right and
you're networking well,
that's a natural progression.
You go from, hey,
I wanna talk to you about my project and
that person becomes the person that
you're talking to you about your work,
to a person that is mentoring you,
to the person that is sponsoring you and
champion you when you're not in the room,
right?
That's what we all aspire to have and
we all aspire to become one day for
someone else, right?
So first, let's begin with what I feel
like if you go to the networking MD repo.
What I feel like is the most powerful and
most impactful form of networking.
The informational interview,
that is where I am identifying someone
that I have found something interesting
on or find something that I
wanna mimic in my own career or
even if it's a company I wanna work at.
And I request or find someone I request
and can I have an informational
interview with them so I can pick their
brain and ask them questions, right?
So this is not like hey,
them interviewing me for
a role this is more me interviewing
them asking them about the roles or
ask them about something
that they've done,
a great example in my
career I'm Paul Ford.
He used to work at postflight.
And he now he has a startup@abroad.io.
He wrote an article the turtle into
the entire magazine.com, What Is Code?
First interactive article
that Bloomberg ever did.
If you go there,
it's an amazing article, Paul for
What Is Code, I highly recommend it.
It's so cool so many easter eggs.
It's the dopest article
I've ever seen in my life.
And of course me being into writing,
I asked him I was like,
hey, I would really like to pick
your brain about this article.
I absolutely love this article.
So he was like sure,
what you pick my brain, so
I got an informational interview with him.
Because I looked up to like this level
of eloquence or writing and also this
admission of having a brain that was
code reluctant and still forcing himself
to learn how to code and still getting
to the path where he was a good coder.
Even though he didn't take to it
naturally and things like that I was,
I feel like I'm in this right here
because I was young at the time I was,
okay, there's so much to learn.
Maybe I'm like him.
And just going through this and we kept
having these conversations back and forth.
One day I was like hey,
you wanna join my board for vets who code?
Cuz we're working on trying
to get to the next level.
He was like,
I have a lot of my plate right now, no.
Okay, I was like giant drat, but
then I remember the first lesson,
success is an a no does not mean never,
a no means not right now, right?
So I continue networking with him and
he continued networking with me and he
started recommending me for opportunities
to talk, opportunities to write.
And then until one day I asked him again,
get about me on a board and he was like,
you know what?
Yeah, sure.
And then, I was hey,
I need a serious mentor to help me
get to the next level of my career.
That happened about two years ago.
And he was, all right,
how do you wanna do this?
I was, so once a month,
I wanna meet up with you,
I wanna have these action items and
things like that.
He was wow,
you've really thought about this.
And I was yeah, I have, I'm sorry.
And so that happened,
and for about two years.
Once a month, we met up,
met the action items,
he would give me to-dos to
the point where he was like,
I don't have anything else to tell
you what to do cuz you've done them.
And I'm hoping that I at least helped
you some way cuz it's very rare to be
in this type of situations where people
do what you tell them to do, right?
Which is how what you should do when
you're networking and you're meeting
mentors and stuff when they give you
advice, execute on it immediately.
And let them know that you executed on it
because when you do that that makes them
wanna tell you and give you more
advice on opportunities, right?
And it makes them wanna champion you
in the rooms that you're not in because
that's what makes them wanna sponsor you.
Because that you you're building that
feedback loop of trust when you're
doing things, right?
Like that's what you want to do.
You wanna keep building that
feedback loop of trust, but hey,
dude, if you do this to be better,
hey, I did that.
This was my metrics.
This is what happened and they're
like it took you a week to do that.
Well yeah, it was only one of my to dues
and I was like, I made it mandatory.
Like that's super cool.
You put what I said in front of your to
do list and you knocked it out, right?
Informationals.
That's how our relationship started
with the informational interview.
I have many troops that we have
what we call slack side chats or
used to call them that,
but now we call it drill,
which is like very famous technologists
come and talk to my veterans.
And I always ensure that sometimes
that I connect one of them to
one of my veterans so
they can have informational interviews.
So that over the course of years of
building these relationships they will
have these people who can mentor and
sponsor as well.
But that is how the information
interviews work.
You see you're asking about advice,
guidance from an experienced
individual to provide valuable
insights to their career path,
industry in the trends or
job market dynamics and
that becomes something bigger over
time if you're doing this right.